# GSFC_Internship
My trial and error repository during my internship at the GSFC.

## Internship

Alongside Simon Strandberg and Lina Olandersson, I spent 10 weeks working at
NVI Inc., a contractor, contracted solemnly by NASA.

### NVI Inc.

NVI Inc. has been contracted by NASA for the past 40 years, at the Goddard
Space Flight Centre. NASA at Goddard controls the Hubble Space Telescope, sends
satellites to Jupiter and builds equipments that are on board the Mars rover
Curiosity! You could say that Goddard is quite a big deal. It has been
inspiring to work here; to wake up in tho morning and think: "Today I am going
to work, at NASA."

NVI is devoted to VLBI (Very Long Baseline Interferometry) a technique which
boils down to: having an antenna look at something in the universe, often
quasars which are super bright sources of energy, and derive information about
that source. By having multiple antennas looking at the same source one can
correlate the difference in arrival time between the antennas. This
information can then be used to calculate the distance between said antennas
using trigonometry.

### This Repository

In this repository you find the work we have produced during our internship.
``testing/`` contains a lot of unfinished tests, tutorials, etc. that we have
tried and then left to die. There might be a point at which I wish to return to
those ideas though, why they are still present in the repository.

#### Azel

``azel/`` contains our more successful of the two projects that we did. It is a
program that calculates slewing times for the VLBI antennas in use all over the
world. A more thorough readme is present in that folder.

#### Parent_Child

``parent_child/`` is the beginning of a rewrite of the program Calc/Solve.
Calc/Solve is used by scientists all over the world to analyze their VLBI
findings. We set out to rewrite some part of the program's I/O handling. We
managed to do it, but the result was not as good as expected and for now the
project is put on ice.

